README.md, before:

### Question Limit API (Admin)
- `POST /api/admin/question-limit` — Set the number of questions students will see
  - Example body:
    ```json
    { "limit": 5 }
    ```
- `GET /api/admin/question-limit` — Get the current question limit
# Online Exam App

A Spring Boot REST API for managing and taking online exams, with role-based access for admins and students.

## Features

- **User Registration & Login**: Supports both admin and student roles.
- **Admin Dashboard**:
  - Add objective questions (with 4 options and correct answer) via REST API.
  - Enable/disable exam and set number of questions.
  - View all student exam attempts.
- **Student Dashboard**:
  - Take objective exams (random questions, score calculation).
  - View own exam attempt history.
- **Persistence**: Uses MySQL with JPA/Hibernate ORM for all data storage.
- **Spring Boot**: RESTful API, dependency injection, and transaction management.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Java 8+
- Maven
- MySQL

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**  
   `git clone https://github.com/kanikaprabhakar/Online-Exam-App.git`

2. **Configure MySQL**  
   - Create a database named `EXAM_APP`.
   - Update credentials in `src/main/resources/application.properties`.

3. **Build the project**  
   `mvn clean install`

4. **Run the application**  
   `mvn spring-boot:run`  
   or  
   `mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=orm.ormfirst.OnlineExamApp`

## Usage

- Use a REST client (Postman, curl, etc.) to interact with the API endpoints.
- Register as admin or student.
- Admins can add questions, enable/disable exams, set question count, and view all attempts.
- Students can take exams and view their own attempt history.

## API Endpoints & Example Request Bodies

### Student Registration

- `POST /api/students/register-student`
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "name": "John Doe",
      "email": "john@example.com",
      "password": "yourPassword",
      "role": "student",
      "rollNumber": "STU1001",
      "phone": "9876543210",
      "address": "123 Main Street, City"
    }
    ```

- `POST /api/students/register-admin`
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "name": "Admin User",
      "email": "admin@example.com",
      "password": "adminPassword",
      "role": "admin"
    }
    ```

### Other Student Endpoints
- `GET /api/students` — List all students

### Question Endpoints
- `GET /api/questions` — List all questions
- `POST /api/questions` — Add a new question
- `PUT /api/questions/{id}` — Update a question by ID
- `DELETE /api/questions/{id}` — Delete a question by ID
- `GET /api/questions/{id}` — Get a question by ID


### Exam Attempt Endpoints
- `POST /exam-attempts` — Add a new exam attempt (static info)
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "studentEmail": "student@example.com",
      "score": 8,
      "totalQuestions": 10,
      "attemptTime": "2025-09-09T10:30:00Z"
    }
    ```
- `GET /exam-attempts` — List all exam attempts (admin)
- `GET /exam-attempts/student/{email}` — List exam attempts for a specific student email

### Question Endpoints
- `GET /api/questions/student` — Get random questions for student (limit applied)
- `GET /api/questions` — List all questions
- `POST /api/questions` — Add a new question
- `PUT /api/questions/{id}` — Update a question by ID
- `DELETE /api/questions/{id}` — Delete a question by ID
- `GET /api/questions/{id}` — Get a question by ID

### Student Endpoints
- `GET /api/students` — List all students
- `POST /api/students/register-student` — Register a student
- `POST /api/students/register-admin` — Register an admin

### Question Limit API (Admin)
- `POST /api/admin/question-limit` — Set the number of questions students will see
  - Example body:
    ```json
    { "limit": 5 }
    ```
- `GET /api/admin/question-limit` — Get the current question limit

### Admin Endpoints
- `GET /api/admin/questions` — Get all questions (with answers) for admin

## Project Structure

- `src/main/java/entity/` — JPA entities (User, Question, Exam, ExamAttempt, etc.)
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/repository/` — Spring Data JPA repositories
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/controller/` — REST controllers
- `src/main/java/Service/` — Service layer
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/App.java` — Legacy console UI (not used in REST API)
- `src/main/resources/application.properties` — Spring Boot configuration

## Customization

- Change exam settings, question formats, or add new features by editing the relevant classes.
- For a web frontend, consider integrating with React or another framework.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

crud for admin and student

README.md, after:

### Question Limit API (Admin)
- `POST /api/admin/question-limit` — Set the number of questions students will see
  - Example body:
    ```json
    { "limit": 5 }
    ```
- `GET /api/admin/question-limit` — Get the current question limit
# Online Exam App

A Spring Boot REST API for managing and taking online exams, with role-based access for admins and students.

## Features

- **User Registration & Login**: Supports both admin and student roles.
- **Admin Dashboard**:
  - Add objective questions (with 4 options and correct answer) via REST API.
  - Enable/disable exam and set number of questions.
  - View all student exam attempts.
- **Student Dashboard**:
  - Take objective exams (random questions, score calculation).
  - View own exam attempt history.
- **Persistence**: Uses MySQL with JPA/Hibernate ORM for all data storage.
- **Spring Boot**: RESTful API, dependency injection, and transaction management.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Java 8+
- Maven
- MySQL

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**  
   `git clone https://github.com/kanikaprabhakar/Online-Exam-App.git`

2. **Configure MySQL**  
   - Create a database named `EXAM_APP`.
   - Update credentials in `src/main/resources/application.properties`.

3. **Build the project**  
   `mvn clean install`

4. **Run the application**  
   `mvn spring-boot:run`  
   or  
   `mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=orm.ormfirst.OnlineExamApp`

## Usage

- Use a REST client (Postman, curl, etc.) to interact with the API endpoints.
- Register as admin or student.
- Admins can add questions, enable/disable exams, set question count, and view all attempts.
- Students can take exams and view their own attempt history.

## API Endpoints & Example Request Bodies

### Student Registration

- `POST /api/students/register-student`
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "name": "John Doe",
      "email": "john@example.com",
      "password": "yourPassword",
      "role": "student",
      "rollNumber": "STU1001",
      "phone": "9876543210",
      "address": "123 Main Street, City"
    }
    ```

- `POST /api/students/register-admin`
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "name": "Admin User",
      "email": "admin@example.com",
      "password": "adminPassword",
      "role": "admin"
    }
    ```

### Other Student Endpoints
- `GET /api/students` — List all students

### Question Endpoints
- `GET /api/questions` — List all questions
- `POST /api/questions` — Add a new question
- `PUT /api/questions/{id}` — Update a question by ID
- `DELETE /api/questions/{id}` — Delete a question by ID
- `GET /api/questions/{id}` — Get a question by ID


### Exam Attempt Endpoints
- `POST /exam-attempts` — Add a new exam attempt (static info)
  - Example body:
    ```json
    {
      "studentEmail": "student@example.com",
      "score": 8,
      "totalQuestions": 10,
      "attemptTime": "2025-09-09T10:30:00Z"
    }
    ```
- `GET /exam-attempts` — List all exam attempts (admin)
- `GET /exam-attempts/student/{email}` — List exam attempts for a specific student email

### Question Endpoints
- `GET /api/questions/student` — Get random questions for student (limit applied)
- `GET /api/questions` — List all questions
- `POST /api/questions` — Add a new question
- `PUT /api/questions/{id}` — Update a question by ID
- `DELETE /api/questions/{id}` — Delete a question by ID
- `GET /api/questions/{id}` — Get a question by ID


### Student CRUD Endpoints
- `GET /api/students` — List all students
- `GET /api/students/{id}` — Get a student by ID
- `POST /api/students/register-student` — Register a student
- `PUT /api/students/{id}` — Update a student by ID
- `DELETE /api/students/{id}` — Delete a student by ID

### Admin CRUD Endpoints
- `GET /api/admin/users` — List all admin users
- `GET /api/admin/users/{id}` — Get an admin user by ID
- `POST /api/students/register-admin` — Register an admin
- `PUT /api/admin/users/{id}` — Update an admin user by ID
- `DELETE /api/admin/users/{id}` — Delete an admin user by ID

### Question Limit API (Admin)
- `POST /api/admin/question-limit` — Set the number of questions students will see
  - Example body:
    ```json
    { "limit": 5 }
    ```
- `GET /api/admin/question-limit` — Get the current question limit

### Admin Endpoints
- `GET /api/admin/questions` — Get all questions (with answers) for admin

## Project Structure

- `src/main/java/entity/` — JPA entities (User, Question, Exam, ExamAttempt, etc.)
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/repository/` — Spring Data JPA repositories
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/controller/` — REST controllers
- `src/main/java/Service/` — Service layer
- `src/main/java/orm/ormfirst/App.java` — Legacy console UI (not used in REST API)
- `src/main/resources/application.properties` — Spring Boot configuration

## Customization

- Change exam settings, question formats, or add new features by editing the relevant classes.
- For a web frontend, consider integrating with React or another framework.

## License

MIT



crud admin students

frontend : 
register admin, register student
exam attempts (get current limit and put new limit in one page)
questions dashboard (update , get all questions (have user hit GET questions and then have it download a json file on system - can be done using basic js), delete a ques,  )
